Super Saiyan Blue (超サイヤ人ブルー, Sūpā Saiya-jin Burū), also known as Super Saiyan God Super Saiyan (超サイヤ人ゴッド超サイヤ人, Sūpā Saiya-jin Goddo Sūpā Saiya-jin) is a transformation that uses the power of Super Saiyan God with the Super Saiyan form. This form can be accessed by absorbing the powers of god and combining it with Super Saiyan or through vigorous ki control training as seen with Vegeta in Super. This form exceedingly surpasses its predecessor, Super Saiyan God.[2][3]

Goku Black's version of the form is called Super Saiyan Rosé, which possesses a different hair color due to his status as a god.

Contents[show]
Overview
Concept and creation
For the film Dragon Ball Z: Resurrection ‘F’, Akira Toriyama further expanded on the concept of the “Super Saiyan God” transformation featured in Dragon Ball Z: Battle of Gods by combining its power into that of a Super Saiyan. As the author explained it, and as Goku similarly mentions in the movie, the form is the result of a Saiyan with the power of Super Saiyan God further transforming into a Super Saiyan.

In relation to Goku, Toriyama says on Goku he made his hair light blue to express how “by overcoming a certain limit he has become both strong and tranquil, able to keep his composure in a fight”. And in regards to Vegeta he adds that he gave Vegeta black clothes because he figured that maybe Bulma had modified his combat uniform to add some slight improvements. On that note, it was constructed by the Capsule Corporation development branch under Bulma’s instructions. In an interview with Toyotarō, Akira Toriyama reveals that he was thinking about having the form be white, but then it would color-clash with the “next enemy”, so he figured he should save it for another occasion.[4]

Appearance
"So what is this? Super Saiyan with blue hair dye?"
— Frieza commenting on the appearance of the form

SSGSS GOKU
Goku moments after transforming into Super Saiyan Blue
This form is nearly identical to the first Super Saiyan form, the only differences being that the hair and irises are light blue in color and, in Goku's case, a single bang of his hair protruding upwards from the main lower bangs facing and curving forwards from either the left or right sides, although this bang of hair does not always appear in some scenes. Super Saiyan Blue boasts a vibrant, fiery, electric blue aura, as opposed to the blazing orange aura from Super Saiyan God. The aura surrounding the Super Saiyan Blue form also appears to be glittering somewhat, with small sparkling particles of energy travelling upwards within the flames, with occasional surges of electricity. If one inspects closely, a very subtle yellow glow can be seen on the outside of the aura as well. It's unknown why this is present, but it could very well indicate traces of the original Super Saiyan aura mixed with the godly ki (as Goku stated to this form being the result of a Super Saiyan God-empowered user further transforming into a Super Saiyan), similar to the aura seen with Future Trunks' Super Saiyan Rage form, which too possesses an aura of two mixed colours.

Usage and power
"If you want the short version, I managed to achieve a transformation called Super Saiyan God. A form that gave me divine power unlike any I'd ever felt before. But, I couldn't control it, and it faded away soon. But, now I've mastered it, and evolved even further. What you're looking at is the end result of the divinity of a Super Saiyan God, combined with my power as a Super Saiyan. What you get is right here before you."
— Goku to Frieza in Clash! Freeza vs. Son Goku! This is the Fruit of My Training!

SS 5
Vegeta displays his Super Saiyan Blue form
In Goku's words, this form is what happens when a "Saiyan with the power of a Super Saiyan God further transforms himself into a Super Saiyan"[5]. The form can be obtained by a Saiyan who has become a Super Saiyan God and then retained the power, then by strengthening their Super Saiyan form (which kept the power of Super Saiyan God) they can evolve it into the Super Saiyan Blue form, and in turn re-obtain access to their original Super Saiyan form - without the power of Super Saiyan God.

This form does not turn the user into a true god, but does clad them in the ki of a god. Due to the intense training and calm mind needed to acquire it, this form exceedingly surpasses its predecessor Super Saiyan God, and all of the other Saiyan forms, possibly including Super Saiyan 4.[6], currently making it Goku and Vegeta's strongest form. Despite the form's huge upgrade in power from the original Super Saiyan God, even after training with Whis neither Goku nor Vegeta could challenge Beerus alone. This form is not powerful enough to defeat Golden Frieza at full power either, but due to Goku and Vegeta's long-time experience with the form, Super Saiyan Blue was able to outlast Golden Frieza thanks to its minimal ki output compared to his. It is stated by both Goku and Vegeta that this form requires focus and a calm mind, but in return the form gives much better ki control than the regular Super Saiyan form. Because of this form's perfect innate ki control and the calm mind required to attain it, this form can be combined with the Kaio-ken to create the Super Saiyan Blue Kaio-ken in the anime.

Copia
Super Saiyan Blue Copy-Vegeta fighting against Goku
The form is however noted to have a major flaw in its stamina, especially in the Dragon Ball Super manga. If the form is subsequently used multiple times in a row, on the second consecutive usage the form's traits (power, speed, amount of god ki) will all drop by over 90% from their maximum level, which explains why Vegeta was unable to easily overwhelm Hit like Goku, who saved the form, could, due to Vegeta already using the form against Cabba. Additionally, it is noted by Beerus and Whis that the power of this form at less than 10% capacity is less than that of a Super Saiyan God. This flaw is not discussed in as much detail in the anime, with the amount of stamina lost not being specified. However, Goku did tell Hit that Super Saiyan Blue required too much energy for the start of the match and he was saving it for later.

While training on Beerus' planet, Vegeta and Goku use this transformation while sparring under the supervision of Whis. After Beerus and Champa decided to hold a tournament between Universe 6 and Universe 7 for Universe 7's Earth, Goku and Vegeta trained in the Hyperbolic Time Chamber and used this transformation while going all out for the three days spent in the room. During the tournament between Universe 6 and Universe 7, Vegeta displays this form to Cabba while fighting. He proceeds to use the form during his battle with Hit, but fails because he could not use much of his power due to the form's stamina drawbacks. The stamina flaw seems to be over come by the time of the fight with Black and Zamasu as Vegeta drops out of the form and reassumes it after and continues fighting Goku Black.

Goku uses the form against Copy-Vegeta, who due to stealing Vegeta's powers also had access to this form.

Vegeta is shown using this transformation again against Future Trunks, as he laughed when Trunks asked Vegeta if he would transform into a Super Saiyan 3. Trunks remarked that Vegeta and Goku should easily be able to beat Goku Black. As their battle continued, Vegeta was able to easily defeat Trunks. However, the aforementioned fight against Black turned out more difficult than expected. Both Vegeta and Goku use this form while battling Goku Black, before and after he transforms into Super Saiyan Rosé. Despite their efforts, Black's improved base form (which previously fought on par with Goku's Super Saiyan 2) was easily able to withstand most of the attacks Super Saiyan Blue Vegeta dealt, and Black's transformation into Super Saiyan Rosé only made the situation more critical. After training in the Hyperbolic Time Chamber and going back to the Future, Vegeta was shown to have increased his power enough that in his Super Saiyan Blue form he managed overpower and pummel Goku Black, who was in the Super Saiyan Rosé state at the time even blocking Black's Fierce God Slicer with his bare fist.

Goku Black gains the Super Saiyan God Super Saiyan form during his battle with Vegeta in the future, however due to possessing pink hair in this form, he instead dubs it Super Saiyan Rosé.

Vegetto1
Super Saiyan Blue Vegito during his fight against Fusion Zamasu
Due to both Goku and Vegeta both possessing the form, their Potara fusion result, Vegito can also transform, which he does so shortly after fusing. In this form, Vegito Blue, Vegito is able to outmatch the Light of Justice-powered Fusion Zamasu, also gaining a slight upper hand in their fight. However, before Vegito could perform the finishing blow, this form proved to be too powerful, and also strenuous, to be maintained and ultimately defused sooner than the estimated time. Due to Vegito using the Final Kamehameha against Fusion Zamasu, both Goku and Vegeta cannot transform into Super Saiyan Blue due to the technique's massive energy output, so Future Trunks had to transform instead, since he still had enough energy. Goku utilizes this form again immediately when he begins his battle against Arale Norimaki, which also impresses the Android. Goku and Vegeta used this form again during Universe 6 and Universe 7's baseball match, and later when Goku fights Hit, who attempts to assassinate him, and proved to be quite a match for this form, thanks to fighting at his very best using killing techniques, and Vegeta during his training with Whis on Beerus' planet in prepearation for the universal tournament.

Movie Appearances
"That's right. All those years wasting away in Hell, and you had no idea, did you? I've been a Super Saiyan for years. And now, I too have unlocked the power of a god."
— Vegeta showing Frieza his transformation just before fighting him

FriezavsGoku2
Golden Frieza vs. Super Saiyan Blue Goku
In Dragon Ball Z: Resurrection ‘F’, after Goku achieves the Super Saiyan God form and absorbs its power, and Goku and Vegeta train with Whis and master their ki control, they can use this new transformation. Goku uses this transformation against Golden Frieza. He is unable to defeat the tyrant until Frieza loses stamina, but Sorbet uses his Bad Ring Laser and mortally wounds Goku.

SSD 4
Super Saiyan Blue Vegeta pummeling Golden Frieza
Vegeta steps in to fight Frieza and demonstrates also being able to use this transformation, which frustrates the tyrant, after the fight he loses his Golden form. Even though he won, Vegeta takes too long to deliver the final blow, and Frieza uses this opportunity to destroy the Earth, killing everyone except those who were next to Whis. After that, Whis redoes time to three minutes prior and Super Saiyan Blue Goku kills Frieza with a Kamehameha before he could destroy the planet again.